On the final day of February, Donald
Trump decided to take the biggest gamble
of his political career and launched the
biggest war in the Middle East has seen
in decades that is radically and quickly
changing the way our entire world works.
After months of build-up, the war was
launched in coordination with Israel on
the 28th of February that immediately
involved heavy Israeli air strikes on
the personal compound of Iran's
86-year-old supreme leader, the
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, killing him in a
sea of fire. Multiple other opening
Israeli air strikes immediately targeted
other senior Iranian leadership in an
attempt to decapitate as much of the
country's ruling elites as possible,
which up to this video's production has
included the Iranian defense minister,
the head of the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps, or the IRGC, and dozens of
others. Within just the first 6 days of
the war's start, the US military already
carried out more than 2,000 air strikes
all across Iran that have sunk nearly
the entirety of the Iranian navy's major
service vessels, while a separate US
submarine strike on an Iranian frigate
thousands of miles away from Iran off
the coast of Sri Lanka represented the
first US submarine kill since the end of
the Second World War. America's chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has claimed
that the opening day of the war involved
nearly double the number of American
munitions dropped that were dropped on
Saddam Hussein's Iraq on the first day
of the Shock and Awe campaign in 2003.
While the Israeli Air Forces claim they
have been actively striking around a
thousand targets all across Iran every
single day as well. A pace of attacks
that have been enabled by their newly
gained ability to fly over Syria and
American aerial tankers refueling them
in the sky. Western-based human rights
groups have already reported that more
than a thousand civilians across Iran
have already been killed by these
American and Israeli air strikes.
Military casualties beyond the supreme
leader within Iran due to this
overwhelming aerial war are so far
unclear, but the Israelis have been
actively attempting to strike every
single IRGC headquarters across the
country, and even bomb the building that
contained the senior leadership
responsible for selecting the next
supreme leader. A clear sign that
Israel's military objective, at least,
is to grind down Iran's military
capabilities and cause enough shock to
the system to induce the regime into
collapse by whatever means necessary.
America and Trump's objectives for
having started the war, meanwhile,
remain much less clear. Trump himself
has variously urged on the Iranian
people to rise up against the power of
regime in a revolution, suggesting it's
about regime change, while also saying
that he would still be willing to talk
to the regime and cut some kind of a
deal. His Secretary of State, Marco
Rubio, has variously stated that
America's war aims are to destroy Iran's
ballistic missile program and its navy.
While his Secretary of War, Pete
Hegseth, has added that it's also about
finishing off all of Iran's nuclear
capabilities as well. In justifying the
attacks, Trump and his administration
officials have variously stated that it
was because Iran was supposedly too
close to acquiring a nuclear weapon,
despite the strikes on Iran's nuclear
program last year that it supposedly
obliterated their capabilities, to a
sense that Israel was going to strike
Iran regardless of what America wanted,
and so America had to attack Iran first
in order to destroy their ability to
retaliate to that Israeli attack,
>> [music]
>> to a feeling by Trump himself that the
Iranians were supposedly preparing to
attack first, and America had to
preemptively strike them along with the
Israelis. It's all pretty vague, but the
biggest reason is simply the cold
geopolitical calculus that the Americans
and Israelis felt that the Iranian
regime was at its weakest point in
decades. Iran's water resources had
dried up after years of mismanagement
and drought. Its economy and currency
were both in active freefall, while a
large-scale popular uprising against the
regime in January was brutally
suppressed by the regime's Basij
paramilitary units after Khamenei
ordered them to begin opening fire
indiscriminately.
Sensing that these protests were an
existential threat against the regime,
credible human rights organizations
estimate that the besieged paramilitary
units massacred a minimum of 7,000 of
the protesters, while other estimates go
up to as high as 30,000 deaths or even
higher. Representing by far the
bloodiest crackdown on protesters in
modern Iranian history, Trump threatened
a clear red line that if the regime
began killing protesters on mass, he
would intervene militarily. And they
crossed the red line anyway, and he
initially didn't do much of anything to
retaliate. The US military wasn't really
in a good position to do so at the time,
without even any aircraft carrier strike
groups present in the region at all. In
fact, Trump's threats may have given the
regime a perverse incentive to
reestablish their control over their own
population at any cost before the US
could actually deploy their assets back
to the region to respond. But following
the ruthless put down of the protests
and sensing the regime's lingering
vulnerability, the US began rapidly
concentrating their assets back into the
region to the largest scale since the
2003 invasion of Iraq. Began threatening
the regime to negotiate on surrendering
its nuclear and ballistic missile
programs or face the consequences. And
then, eventually, evidently decided to
simply attack to force the regime into
submission or collapse through
alternative means instead. And now the
war that he started risks exploding
across the entire Middle East. It risks
massive destruction to the global
economy, and it risks rapidly devolving
into a quagmire whose outcome could end
up being much, much worse than the world
we knew beforehand.
The Iranians have decided to retaliate
against these existential American and
Israeli attacks by basically attacking
everyone else around them. Since the war
began, the Iranians have fired hundreds
of ballistic missiles and thousands of
explosive kamikaze drones into the
territories of Oman, the UAE, Saudi
Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Iraq,
Syria, Jordan, Israel, Cyprus, Turkey,
and Azerbaijan so far. On the opening
day of the war alone, Iran fired 180
ballistic missiles towards Israel, and
another 250 more in the various six Gulf
countries. Five days into the war, the
UAE reported that Iran had fired more
than 189 ballistic missiles into its
territory, and 941 of their cheaper
explosive kamikaze drones, 93% of which
they reported were successfully
intercepted by their air defenses.
Hundreds of additional projectiles have
since been fired by Iran all across
Kuwait, Bahrain, and Qatar. While
smaller numbers of projectiles numbering
in the dozens have also been launched
into Saudi Arabia and Oman. And while
most of the projectiles fired at these
countries have also been intercepted, a
few have broken through, and damage has
been inflicted. In Dubai, the fancy
Fairmont Hotel on the Palm Jumeirah, one
of the city's famous reclaimed islands,
was lit ablaze on the very first day.
Debris from an intercepted missile
rained down on the exterior of the
famous Burj Al Arab luxury seven-star
hotel, sparking a fire there as well.
While more debris impacted Dubai's huge
international airport and fell across
residents' own backyards. More notably,
Iranian drones have deliberately struck
three of Amazon's data centers in the
region as well. Two impacted Amazon data
centers in Dubai on the opening day of
the war, while a third impacted another
Amazon data center in Bahrain a few days
later, representing the first times that
critical AI-related infrastructure have
been attacked or damaged during wartime.
And all of this has been a major, major
shock to Dubai and the UAE's entire
economic model, which for decades has
been based on presenting itself as a
supposed oasis of stability and calm in
a dangerous but geographically critical
region that links East and West for
foreign businesses to set up the
regional operations in. It has appealed
as a place of residence for wealthy
foreigners for decades now. From Arabs
attempting to escape the strife in the
rest of the region to Europeans dodging
their taxes to Russians and Ukrainians
fleeing military service. Dubai has
received more foreign direct investment,
more AI related data centers, and is
home to more regional foreign offices
than any other city in its region
because of this reputation, which has
led the city to be able to grow
fabulously wealthy with its glittering
skyline. Now, all of that is in jeopardy
because of this war. The hum of hundreds
of ballistic missiles and drones flying
over the city and the thunder of
interceptors blowing them up in the sky
and the roar of fighter jets along with
famous hotels and landmarks and
infrastructure going up in flames has
shattered the illusion of Dubai being
this oasis of calm and stability in a
sea of chaos. Not since the Second World
War has a city as globally
well-connected as Dubai been attacked so
heavily during wartime. Foreign
residents and companies will inevitably
question their continued role in Dubai's
future following the conclusion of this
war as political risk insurance premiums
rise. And naturally, the UAE government
is doing just about everything they can
to reassure everyone that everything is
perfectly under control in order to
maintain the reputation and economic
model as best they can going forward.
Because of the sheer volume of fire that
Iran unleashed upon the Gulf States in
the first few days of the war, there is
a palpable fear that the Gulf States
might be running dangerously low on the
expensive interceptor missiles they
require to keep shooting down any
further waves of attack. Generally, air
defenses will fire at least two
interceptor missiles at each one
incoming enemy missile to guarantee a
kill as much as possible. Since the
start of the war, Iran has fired more
than 400 ballistic missiles at the Gulf
states collectively, which implies that
they've likely fired around 800
interceptor missiles in order to block
most of them. An incredibly fast burn
rate that is more than five times as
many interceptors as the United States
used against Saddam's army throughout
the entirety of the first Gulf War.
Critically, because all governments
treat the numbers of interceptors they
have in their stockpiles as a closely
guarded state secret, there is no
reliable information on how many of them
the Gulf states actually have before the
war and [music] how low their potential
remaining stockpiles are now. They're
kept a secret because if an enemy knew
exactly how many interceptors an
opponent had left, they would know
exactly how many missiles to fire in
order to overwhelm them. All we know is
that the Gulf states have expended an
absolutely insane number of interceptors
since the war began and replacing them
will take years worth of production and
billions of dollars. If their stockpiles
are truly on the lower end like many
suspect, the Gulf states might have to
begin making painful decisions on how to
use whatever they have left if Iran
fires further waves of strikes, choosing
which sites to defend and which sites to
leave exposed, possibly forcing them to
eventually start pressuring the
Americans to put a stop to the war lest
they have to risk their cities and major
infrastructure actually getting badly
damaged. And that, in essence, is why
Iran decided to radically escalate the
scope of this war in retaliation by
attacking basically everyone else around
them, even if they had nothing to do
with the US and Israeli attacks in the
first place. The US military maintains
very large bases and presences in Qatar,
Bahrain, the UAE, Kuwait, and Saudi
Arabia, which Iran has used as their
justification for the retaliatory
attacks on these countries. But none of
these countries actually permitted the
US military to utilize their bases for
the attacks that were launched on Iran.
And they wouldn't even allow the US
military to utilize their airspaces,
either. All of the American attacks came
either from their aircraft carriers
operating in the Arabian Sea and the
Eastern Mediterranean or from their air
bases in Jordan, but none from the Gulf
states directly. Iran's real aim in
attacking the Gulf states the way they
have is to try and cause as much damage
to the global economy as physically
possible in an attempt to force Trump to
end the war under the pressure of even
further pain. In addition to the attacks
on the cities themselves and the terror
they inflicted on residents, consider
the damage the attacks have already done
to the global oil and airline industries
as well. Iranian missiles and drones
have bombarded Saudi Arabia's largest
oil refinery at Ras Tanura and Qatar's
super massive LNG facility at Ras
Laffan, shutting down production at both
for an uncertain amount of time.
Meanwhile, Iran has also ordered the
closure of the narrow Strait of Hormuz
and threatened to light ablaze any ship
that dares to pass through. For decades,
this action has been the most feared
method of escalation that Iran has been
capable of. The Strait of Hormuz is the
most critical maritime choke point in
the world since virtually all of the oil
exports of Iraq, Kuwait, Iran, and most
of those of Saudi Arabia and the UAE
have no other choice but to pass through
it towards the world market, as well as
all of Qatar's LNG exports. As a result,
1/3 of all the world's seaborne crude
oil and 1/5 of all the world's LNG
transit through the strait on a daily
basis under normal circumstances. And
even with the majority of its large
surface fleet sunk, Iran is believed to
still have thousands of naval mines at
its disposal that it could use its large
number of much smaller motorboats to
litter across the strait in addition to
attacks on cargo and tanker ships with
drones and missiles. The result has been
that since the war began, the strait has
remained effectively closed, choking off
a massive amount of the global supply of
oil and gas with ships too reluctant to
pass through out of both fear and
skyrocketing insurance costs. Some 3,000
merchant vessels of all different kinds
found themselves stranded by the end of
the first week of the war, representing
roughly 10% of the entire global
container fleet. Iraq has already begun
running out of storage space for crude
oil that would normally be loaded up on
tankers and is being [music] forced to
shut off production at multiple major
fields, slicing production by billions
of barrels a day. And the other Gulf
states remain in a dangerous race
against the clock to get the strait back
open again or face closures of their
own. Kuwait has warned that they also
might need to shut down production
shortly and the UAE soon after that.
While Saudi Arabia has the ability to
export some of their oil along pipelines
out to the Red Sea coast, they might
have to eventually shutter the majority
of their production as well, since most
of it also still has to go through
Hormuz. If the strait remains closed for
a week, several weeks, or several
months, the consequences of all of this
held up oil and gas blocked from the
world market will grow increasingly
painful for everyone in the world to
bear. As of my writing of this script,
the price of a barrel of crude oil has
already jumped up more than 14% since
the war began, while the price of a
megawatt hour of natural gas in Europe
has spiked more than 70%. While Asia,
who is the most critically affected
since they purchase most of their oil
from the Persian Gulf, has been the most
negatively affected of all by
skyrocketing gas and jet fuel prices.
The longer the strait remains closed,
the higher global energy prices will
rise. The higher global inflation rates
will rise with them. The lower global
economic growth will sag and the greater
money that Russia will earn on their own
oil and gas sales that will benefit the
Kremlin's war machine in Ukraine, that
Trump is also still ostensibly trying to
put a stop to. All of this, of course,
is a massive gamble on the part of the
Iranians. On the one hand, attacking the
Gulf states like this and their energy
resources puts huge pressure on the
United States to stop the war in order
to avoid inflation from growing too far
out of control. But on the other hand,
doing this directly impacts China's
primary source of oil that comes from
the Persian Gulf as well and pisses them
off. While it also pushes the Gulf
states further away into the Israeli
camp and also invites retaliatory
strikes on their own oil and gas
infrastructure and shipping that they
overwhelmingly rely on for their
economy, too. Then consider the damage
being inflicted to the global aviation
industry. The primary airports at major
regional hubs like Dubai, Abu Dhabi, and
Doha have all been impacted and damaged
by the war since it began. With
missiles, drones, and aircraft all
streaking through their skies, the
airspaces were completely shut down
across Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar,
Bahrain, Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Israel,
Oman, and Yemen. With partial airspace
closures enforced in Egypt, Saudi
Arabia, and the UAE. At the end of week
one of the war, more than 18,000 flights
to the Middle East region had been
canceled. Most of them to the major
connecting hubs of Dubai, Abu Dhabi, and
Doha that are central hubs to global air
transportation between Europe, Asia, and
Africa. A gigantic hole in the map of
global airline routes has formed across
the entire width of the Middle East from
Iran to the Mediterranean as everyone
avoids the active conflict zone. And
with Russia's airspace still blocked off
to Western airlines because of the
ongoing Ukraine war, there are basically
only two narrow aerial highways that
have formed to connect flights between
east and west. One across the southern
Caucasus and Central Asia, and the other
across Egypt and Central Saudi Arabia.
All of them longer routes than normal
that are requiring more jet fuel to fly
at the same time as oil prices are
spiking, too. As I was writing this
script, it was reported that Iran fired
a missile into the territory of
Azerbaijan as well, reportedly damaging
the regional airport in Azerbaijan's
autonomous Nakhchivan exclave and
wounding four people in the process.
Potentially representing a challenge to
this northern alternative air corridor
as well, that might even further
constrain global airlines options, and
which has led Azerbaijan to also
threaten retaliation against Iran. A
dangerous prospect for Iran to consider
where there are millions of ethnic
Azeris who live just across the border
within Iran. Dubai, Abu Dhabi, and Doha,
the airlines that serve them like
Emirates, Etihad, and Qatar Airways are
based on a super connector business
model, flying in long haul passengers
from all over the world to them so that
they can connect onto their final
destination, which also works well
because of their central location at the
crossroads of Europe, Asia, and Africa.
But, as a result of this model and the
current airspace closures and airport
attacks, tens of thousands of airline
passengers found themselves suddenly
trapped all around the world with no
ability to leave since there were no
other flights to where they wanted to
go. And the longer the war continues,
the longer these passengers might remain
stuck, especially in the Gulf region.
This is particularly frustrating because
the US government has also urged all of
the roughly 1 million American citizens
who reside across the Middle East to
evacuate the region as soon as they can,
which for most of them is currently
impossible since there are no available
flights for them to actually take.
Official US government policy for
Americans in Israel, currently as of
this video's production, is no joke to
just take a bus over to Egypt and then
take flights back to the US from there.
Beyond passengers, the war is hugely
affecting global air freight volumes as
well. Roughly 12% of the world's global
air freight by volume, including roughly
half of the air freight between Europe
and China, usually passes through the
Middle East, which is all practically
ground to a complete halt since the
start of the war, inevitably snarling
global supply chains at the same time as
Trump's tariffs and trade wars are also
doing the same thing. More frighteningly
for the Gulf states, the war also stands
to challenge the long-standing business
models of their airlines and airports as
major regional hubs for transport
between Europe, Asia, and Africa. As
airlines begin looking to more stable
horizons elsewhere nearby like Turkey
and maybe even Ethiopia instead. And
despite how bad things might look right
now, Iran still wields the capacity to
escalate even further. If Iran is still
holding some of its best ballistic
missiles in reserve and believes it has
saturated the Gulf States' air defenses,
it could choose to go for the nuclear
option and target the Gulf States' water
desalination plants and infrastructure,
which if successful will have
catastrophic consequences. 90% of
Kuwait's drinking water is supplied by
desalination, along with 86% of Oman's,
70% of Saudi Arabia's, and 42% of the
UAE's. In a leaked cable that dates back
from 2009, US diplomats wrote that they
believed in the event of a successful
Iranian attack on Saudi Arabia's
desalination plants, the capital and
largest city of Riyadh, home to around 7
million people in the middle of the
desert, who rely on desalination water
piped from the Gulf for virtually all of
their water supply, would be forced to
be completely evacuated within only a
week. No doubt, the Gulf States remain
deeply paranoid about Iran's willingness
to escalate to this point, which would
be existential challenges to their
entire civilizations. And if the Iranian
regime senses that everything is truly
lost, they might end up becoming
desperate enough to actually give it a
shot.
Because of how badly their economies
have already been impacted by this war
and the potential looming existential
risks to their desalination
infrastructure, there's serious talk in
several of the Gulf States of actively
joining the war now on the side of the
Americans and Israelis to destroy
whatever remains of Iran's ballistic
missiles and drone arsenals. Qatari air
defenses have already shot down two
Iranian bombers that were apparently
flying towards their airspace. And they,
the Saudis, and Emiratis have all said
that they fully reserve the right for
self-defense. They might choose to
finally open up their airspaces to the
Americans for operations or allow their
air bases to be utilized as launching
off points for further US attacks and
retaliation. But by doing so, they would
also add to the density of assets in
their airspaces that could lead to
further friendly fire incidents. Already
high-effort Kuwaiti air defenses
mistakenly shot down three American
fighter jets early on in the war. And
European states are also being dragged
into the war whether they want to or
not. After the Iranian missile aimed at
the British military base on Cyprus was
shot down, the British government
announced they would begin allowing the
US to access their bases to attack Iran
from as well, including from the
strategic Diego Garcia base in the
Indian Ocean to conserve as a forward
operating base for America's B-2
strategic bomber fleet. While Greece
agreed to deploy two F-16s and a frigate
to Cyprus as well. Another Iranian
strike in Abu Dhabi impacted a French
naval base there. While the missile that
was launched at Turkey, a member of
NATO, has even led to discussions on
triggering the alliance's Article 5
defense clause, which would commit all
32 members of the alliance into joining
the war as well.
Out on the peripheries of Iran, it is
also being reported now that the CIA is
helping to arm ethnic Iranian Kurdish
militias just across the border in Iraqi
Kurdistan and is urging them all to
march across the border into the
ethnically Kurdish majority parts of
Iran. Thousands of Iranian Kurdish
militiamen have reportedly concentrated
along the Iraqi border. While US and
Israeli air strikes on Iranian military
and IRGC infrastructure across the
border have potentially opened up a path
for them to advance if they choose to do
so.
>> [music]
>> This plan, in my view, is a particularly
reckless one on Washington's part. Loath
to commit ground forces of their own to
an invasion of Iran that would
inevitably be very bloody and very
unpopular. The administration might be
currently calculating that it would be
better to utilize Kurdish and other
ethnic minority militia groups to
advance into Iran instead to hopefully
remove the regime from power that way.
If the Kurdish militias are successful
in taking over swaths of Iranian
Kurdistan, then other ethnic minorities
might rise up next like the Azeris in
the north, the Arabs in the southwest,
and the Baluchis in the southeast. This
>> [music]
>> would be exceedingly dangerous. Iran's
population of 92 million people is
roughly split between 60% who are
Persians and 40% who are a variety of
other ethnic minorities. There are
plenty of Persians in the country who
understandably are furious with the
current regime over the bloody massacres
of protesters they perpetrated just a
few months ago in January. But if they
come to view the only alternative as
ethnic militias demanding their
independence, risking the balkanization
of the country in a dark spiral into
ethnic Yugoslav-style civil war like
what also happened in Iraq, Syria, and
Lebanon, they might become pushed into
rather supporting the devil they know
than the devil they don't, potentially
compromising the apparent American war
goal of inspiring Persians toward
overthrowing their own government. If
the killings of more than a thousand
civilians during the bombings haven't
already done that. The civilian
population remains generally unarmed
relative to the regime, and they likely
still fear the regime's ruthless
repression and massacres of the last
uprising in January, which has no doubt
all contributed to a lack of a popular
uprising yet forming despite the
American and Israeli killings of their
leadership and bombings of their
military. There are undoubtedly many
Persian Iranians who would rather see
the unity of their country under a
regime they despise than the complete
collapse of their country altogether.
And while Israel almost certainly
prefers the balkanization and collapse
of Iran along ethnic sectarian lines
like what happened in Syria and Lebanon,
since it'll keep Iran from being a
challenge and threat to them, it is also
without a doubt not in either America or
the Gulf countries' best interests. An
Iran collapsing into a failed state home
to 92 million people whose water
resources are already basically
destroyed will generate a level of chaos
and instability that the world has its
seen since the Second World War. Iraq
and Syria's collapses of the failed
states in the 2010s after the Arab
Spring were cataclysmic enough. And yet,
they had fractions of Iran's population
and fractions of Iran's governmental
firepower and nuclear weapons
components. The scale of terrorism,
bloodshed, refugees, and weapons
proliferation spilling far beyond Iran's
borders everywhere around it would be an
unbelievably terrible situation for the
Gulf states Iraq and Turkey all to have
to contend with, leading to even further
and potentially worse risks towards the
oil and airline industries in the Gulf
that won't simply go away. At the same
time, the Gulf states also now fear the
survival of the Iranian regime, who
could emerge as a wounded but vengeful
power after the end of this who will
eventually come back to them for revenge
again. Now that they're in this fight,
the Gulf states would ideally want to
see the regime removed, but without the
entire country collapsing. In many ways,
the war has already escalated
dramatically. Iran's proxy in Lebanon,
Hezbollah, has already joined the war
and began attacking Israel on its
northern flank again, prompting a
renewed Israeli ground invasion into
southern Lebanon again that is ongoing
as of my writing this script that has
already resulted in the deaths of
hundreds more people. Iran has confirmed
that Russian intelligence have been
aiding with their military targeting,
while Ukraine is offering their
assistance to the Gulf states in
shooting down Iranian made drones that
they'd gained plenty of experience in
themselves. The United States military
has confirmed that it's been hastily
transferring some of its anti-air assets
from South Korea to the Middle East in
order to help defend against further
Iranian air attacks, potentially leaving
South Korea momentarily exposed to
aggression from North Korea. While talks
within the US military have already come
out about a potential plan to seize
Iran's Kharg Island in the Persian Gulf
as the next step along the escalation
ladder. Kharg Island is a small island
that's only about a third the size of
Manhattan. It's about 25 km off of the
southern Iranian coast that many gamers
are already going to be very familiar
with because it was used as a map for
online play in Battlefield 3. But in
real life, it's also the single most
important economic asset that Iran
controls because the oil terminal on the
island accounts for a whopping 90% of
Iran's total crude oil exports that
overwhelmingly go towards China because
the waters around Kharg Island are
actually deep enough to handle modern
super large tanker ships compared with
the shallower waters around the Iranian
mainland that simply can't. An operation
to seize the island would place massive,
potentially even crippling economic
leverage over Iran if it were successful
because it would enable an almost
complete shutdown of all of Iran's oil
exports that fund as much as 60% of the
government's operating budget. The idea
in Washington might be that if the
bombing campaign alone can't overthrow
the Islamic Republic or prevent it from
blocking the Strait of Hormuz, seizing
Kharg Island and eliminating the
majority of the government's funding
might instead, but without having to
commit all the way to a massive ground
invasion of Iran. Seizing and
controlling Kharg Island would
inevitably require American boots on the
ground, but it might only require a few
thousand Marines to take and hold it as
opposed to the hundreds of thousands
that would be required to actually
invade and occupy the whole country. The
problem, of course, is that seizing
Kharg Island is still a very
geopolitically and militarily risky move
with ultimately uncertain outcomes. The
US is struggling to get its warships
through the Strait of Hormuz right now
because of Iranian missile and drone
strikes, which means that an operation
to seize Kharg Island would likely have
to largely be an airborne and limited
amphibious operation launched from
staging grounds at US military bases
from Kuwait. And even though the US has
been able to maintain complete aerial
supremacy in this war, Kharg Island is
still close enough to the Iranian coast
to be well within range of kamikaze
drones. They can make landing there,
holding it, and resupplying it all
extremely costly. Moreover, occupying
and damaging Kharg Island would likely
do its intended purpose and knock out
Iranian oil from the global market,
which stands to spike the price of oil
even further as the Iranians continue to
bombard everything that moves they don't
like traveling through the Strait of
Hormuz. And even if the US is successful
at taking Kharg Island, it won't stop
the Iranians from continuing to blockade
the Strait of Hormuz by keeping up their
attack campaign there. And the loss of
their oil revenue might only encourage
them to continue escalating, potentially
by expanding their attacks against
regional desalination infrastructure or
against oil and gas pipelines,
especially the Saudi and Emirati
pipelines that can reroute some of their
oil away from Hormuz. If those
desalination plants and pipelines were
damaged in a tit-for-tat exchange for
the loss of Kharg Island, Saudi Arabia
and the UAE might be forced with no
other choice but to join the war
directly against Iran on the side of the
Americans. And the global economy would
only continue suffering even worse.
Basically, Iran still will have the
cards to play up the escalation ladder
even if they do end up losing Kharg. And
there's no guarantee that the loss of
Kharg will force them to the negotiating
table. The only way to stop their
blockade of Hormuz at this point is to
either negotiate on terms that the
regime will deem favorable or to remove
the regime.
And thus, Trump himself is now caught in
a deep hole of his own digging. If he
bows to the economic pressure that Iran
is generating, he will infuriate Israel
and Netanyahu, who want to see this war
through to its ultimate conclusion in
removing the Iranian regime from
existence. And he will undermine the
Gulf States' trust in America after the
US dragged them into a war that they
didn't want, only to leave them with a
vengeful Iran still standing. If he
abandons the war now over the pain it's
causing, it will also show to the
Iranian regime that their strategy of
pounding the Gulf States with attacks is
a successful one that they'll inevitably
just replicate again in the future,
which gives more impetus to the Gulf
States to now see the war through to the
end now that it's already been started.
But on the other side, the longer the
Trump continues the war without removing
the regime, the more the global economic
fallout will rise. The more it will
likely drag on his popularity within the
United States that was already
struggling beforehand, especially since
YouGov polls have shown that only 27% of
Americans supported this war to begin
with, and the more that some foreign
countries may be in pressuring for a
ceasefire out of their own interests.
This is a difficult time in a difficult
situation, and one of those weeks where
decades happen. And figuring out how to
get out of this mess before it gets any
worse will be a truly Herculean feat.
But something that is very much figured
out, on the other hand, is what you
should watch next, or at least put on
your list. And that's my Mad King
series. Mad Kings is a Nebula original,
meaning that it exists only on the
streaming service that myself and a
whole bunch of other creators put
together called Nebula. It's a show that
explores the darker histories of some of
modern history's most well-known
dictators, including other recent
historical figures who were overthrown
through US military interventions like
Libya's Muammar Gaddafi and Iraq's Uday
Hussein. Along with episodes covering
the reigns of North Korea's Kim Il Sung
and Kim Jong Il that explores how they
were actually able to avoid a US
intervention. And then there's also my
other series on Nebula called Modern
Conflicts, which explores modern wars,
battles, and conflicts in a level of
depth and detail that would never work
out on YouTube without triggering this
site's demonetization and age
restriction policies. With episodes you
can watch covering the
Israel-Palestinian conflict, Hamas'
attack on Israel on October 7th, the
overthrow of the Assad regime in Syria,
>> [music]
>> and Israel's invasion of the Gaza Strip
that all explain the crucial backstory
information that you need in order to
understand what's currently happening in
the Middle East right now. These are my
own projects, but there's also just so
much other good stuff on Nebula from
other creators right now that you can
watch, too. There's Day Past hosted by
Jason from Not Just Bikes, which
explores the world through the lens of
public transit down on the ground. If
you wondered whatever happened to Liz
Wheeler, she's been making her usual
documentaries on Nebula for years now
instead of on YouTube. There's Patrick
Willems' latest short film, The Dinner
Plan, featuring big names like Griffin
Newman and Zack Cherry. There's Abolish
Everything, our new comedy debate
premise recorded live in New York. Scav,
a docu-series produced by the Wendover
Productions and JetLag folks tracing the
incredible drama and unfoldings of the
world's largest annual scavenger hunt
hosted at the University of Chicago. And
Oldest and Newest Places by Joe Scott, a
full-length documentary exploring where
the oldest and newest rocks on the
planet are and what it takes to actually
visit them. I can honestly keep going
and going, but just believe me when I
say with every month that goes by, the
Nebula catalog keeps getting deeper,
making becoming a subscriber even
better. But we also need you to help
keep this whole cycle going. We have a
great deal running right now that when
you use my link at nebula.tv/
RealLifeLore or by scanning the QR code
here on your screen, or by clicking the
button, you'll get a whole 50% off of an
annual Nebula subscription, which will
bring the cost for you down to just $30
for the entire year or two and a half
dollars per month, a small fraction of
the price of either YouTube Premium or
Netflix. As other streamers keep raising
their prices, this is an awesome deal.
And if you want to sign up for a
lifetime subscription to Nebula and
never deal with a monthly subscription
ever again. You can get one for 40% off
right now for $300 as well. So, give us
a shot and thank you so much for
supporting not only my own channel, but
all of the other creators who are
building Nebula with their own awesome
content as well. And as always, thank
you so much for watching.